[EDU-6695] feat: added mcp server guides (#1857)
aziontech/docs: src/content/docs/en/pages/guides/mcp/create-mcp.mdx

---
title: How to run an MCP server on Azion
description: Learn how to configure an MCP server on azion
meta_tags: >-
  MCP server, Azion, model context protocol, JSON-RPC, standardized communication, AI tools, elastic scalability, high availability, data sovereignty, fast and secure deployment
namespace: documentation_products_guides_mcp
permalink: /documentation/products/guides/run-mcp-server/
---

> The Model Context Protocol (MCP) is an open spec that uses JSON-RPC to standardize communication between apps and AI agents . It defines high-level operations—listing/invoking tools, reading/writing resources, and fetching prompts—so any compatible client can use third-party AI capabilities without tight coupling. MCP servers let LLMs call external functions and access data. MCP exposes three types: tools (actions), resources (data/content like files or API responses), and prompts (shared prompt templates).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Model Context Protocol (MCP) is an open spec that uses JSON-RPC to standardize communication between apps and AI agents . It defines high-level operations—listing/invoking tools, reading/writing resources, and fetching prompts—so any compatible client can use third-party AI capabilities without tight coupling. MCP servers let LLMs call external functions and access data. 

MCP exposes three types: tools (actions), resources (data/content like files or API responses), and prompts (shared prompt templates).
```

Reviewer: Quebrei aqui a frase pra ficar um pouco mais claro

---
title: How to run an MCP server on Azion
description: Learn how to configure an MCP server on azion
meta_tags: >-
  MCP server, Azion, model context protocol, JSON-RPC, standardized communication, AI tools, elastic scalability, high availability, data sovereignty, fast and secure deployment
namespace: documentation_products_guides_mcp
permalink: /documentation/products/guides/run-mcp-server/
---

The Model Context Protocol (MCP) is an open spec that uses JSON-RPC to standardize communication between apps and AI agents . It defines high-level operations—listing/invoking tools, reading/writing resources, and fetching prompts—so any compatible client can use third-party AI capabilities without tight coupling. MCP servers let LLMs call external functions and access data. 

> MCP exposes three types: tools (actions), resources (data/content like files or API responses), and prompts (shared prompt templates).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Running MCP servers at Azion provides:
```

Running MCP servers at Azion offers:

- Minimal latency
- Elastic scalability
- High availability
- Data sovereignty
- Fast, safe deploys (blue-green and instant rollback)

:::tip
For more information about the MCP protocol, visit the [MCP Documentation](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/introduction).
:::

--- 

> ## Deploying your MCP server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this guide we will create a [Function](/en/documentation/products/build/applications/functions/) to run our MCP server.
```

app.post('/mcp', async (c) => {
    try {

        const { req, res } = toReqRes(c.req.raw);

        const transport: StreamableHTTPServerTransport = new StreamableHTTPServerTransport({
            sessionIdGenerator: undefined,
        });

        await server.connect(transport);

        await transport.handleRequest(req, res, await c.req.json())

        res.on('close', () => {
            console.log('Request closed');
            transport.close();
            server.close();
        });

        return toFetchResponse(res);
    } catch (error) {
        const { req, res } = toReqRes(c.req.raw);
        console.error('Error handling MCP request:', error);
        if (!res.headersSent) {
            res.writeHead(500).end(JSON.stringify({
                jsonrpc: '2.0',
                error: {
                    code: -32603,
                    message: 'Internal server error',
                },
                id: null,
            }));
        }
    }
});

export default app
```

Properties:

| Category | Registration API |
|---|---|
| tools | `server.registerTools()` |
| resources | `server.registerResources()` |
| prompts | `server.registerPrompts()` |

>  With it, the methods must create the handlers. To do this, use `server.setRequestHandler(Schema, async () => { ... })`, using as Schema the options listed [here](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/typescript-sdk/blob/main/src/types.ts). Some examples below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 This way, the methods must create the handlers. To do this, use `server.setRequestHandler(Schema, async () => { ... })`, using as Schema the options listed [here](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/typescript-sdk/blob/main/src/types.ts). Some examples below:
```
